---
layout: post
title: The implications of the rise of quantum computing in the real world
description: “Once the question was if quantum computers would become a reality. Now the question is:‘When will they become a reality?’”
image: assets/images/qc.png
date: '2017-05-20'
---


“Once the question was if quantum computers would become a reality. Now the question is: ‘When will they become a reality?’” declared Michele Mosca, a distinguished Oxford graduate and quantum information scientist (Moskowitz, 2016). After what was known as the last generation of computer revolutions “artificial intelligence and beyond,” it could now be regarded as a failure of imagination for some computer scientist’s narrowmindedness not to believe that something rather than binary based computation would emerge. Through harnessing the subject that was coined not earlier than a century ago, physicists discovered that a new kind of computers could be developed that deploy quantum mechanics laws to achieve unheard-of speed and potential to solve problems that for conventional computers deemed to be intractable. Quantum computing is not a mere version of the ordinary computer with enhanced tools; it is, rather a “new paradigm,” in a way we understand computation. Unlike the traditional machines that employ binary bits of 1’s and 0’s in their processing, quantum computers use quantum bits, commonly known as “qubits,” and, surprisingly, one kind of this bit can store the 1 and 0 states simultaneously, which is called superposition. This ability of superposition provides quantum computers with special advantages over traditional ones regarding the computational power and in the way of exploring countless configurations. Quantum computers' computational capability is providing promising possibilities in discovering new drugs, new fertilizers, and other new technologies(Robinson, 2016). On the other hand, quantum computers is regarded as a double-edged sword, argues Michelle Mosca, in part because of its power to surpass the current digital computational mechanism in terms of speed and fundamental basic structure, and  because it can crack the current cryptographic systems that are commonly used in business organizations and government agencies (Moskowitz, 2016). Thus, the possibility of the advent of the full-fledged quantum computing presents an adversary threat to the current cybersecurity due to its unprecedented speed and technology.

Technically, the current fundamental cryptographic immune system is on the verge of extermination due to the profound power of quantum computers. Diego Navarrete, the CEO o Panda Security, for instances, notes that the quantum era is going to bear “a race between an attacker and protector of our privacy” because a quantum computer can break the “backbone” of our current cryptographic tools, especially those based on public keys (Navarrete, 2017). Ultimately, public keys encryption algorithms work by multiplying the large prime numbers, and the one decrypting has to have factors of those big numbers to decode the message sent to him. Thus, the complexity of these algorithms depends on the factors of those prime numbers, which are almost impossible to find. However, quantum computers are able to break some of those public-key encryption algorithms, such  RSA, and in the matter of fact, the prevalent cryptographic system used today is public-key encryption (Nicolosi, 2017). According to Michelle’s report, it estimates that there is one-in-seven probability that this technology will have broken the essential public-key cryptography tools in ten years ahead and that by 2031 fifty percent of these tools will have been superseded, and sadly, this security scheme is the cornerstone of most of the transactions handled by government agencies, business operations, and other confidential information(Robinson, 2016).  One may think that we are lucky because the problem is known; So why can computer scientists start developing new cryptographic tools that can stand quantum computing attacks? Here is where the concerns of many lies. Yes, a new foundation of the cryptographic system should be developed, and fortunately, a quite number of companies in Canada started working on it. However, these kinds of systems take not one year but take years to develop (Robinson, 2016), and none knows when the powerful quantum computer is to come into existence, which still brings apprehensions to an inordinate number of people, whom might be exposed to this unmitigated disaster.
Besides being a risk to the cyber cryptographic systems, quantum computing presents challenges to a multitude of people as well. According to Kevin Curran, a cybersecurity researcher at Ulster University and IEEE senior member, "We have to train a whole new generation of people who are able to program quantum computers and develop the algorithms because it's completely different from classical computing (NEWMAN, 2017)." This seems intimidating to people who specialized in computer science as they will be compelled to start from scratch learning how new paradigm of this emerging computation works. New burdens also arise here, which, at the same time, is a bottom-line to the black hat hackers. The genesis of a new paradigm of computation will mean a shortage of experienced experts in the fields, which will put at stake the security shields of many companies. 

Although quantum computing brings threats, abandoning its development is not a choice either as we anticipate more advantages that cannot be overlooked.  By harnessing its power, quantum cryptography will halt cybercriminals by heightening the unshakable security, unlike the current systems (Navarrete, 2017). “Right now, our cyber immune system is not ready for the quantum threat. There is a pending lethal attack, and the clock is ticking to design and deploy the cure before the threat is realized,” Mosca wrote(Robinson, 2016). To paraphrase Dr.Gilman, we, rather, need to find the vulnerabilities of our current system and assure that it is secure before it too late(Nicolosi, 2017). And this will be achieved by investing in Post-Quantum Cryptography projects that are going on.  Realizing this should arouse us to push boundaries to clean out some flaws in our cybersecurity system currently in use (Nicolosi, 2017). Given all these facts, computer scientists should not see the quantum technology as a sinister but should leverage its prowess and keep doing more research to look for more views in lieu of considering its cons.

 Clearly, due to the Achilles’ heels in our current cybersecurity, there is no guarantee that the contemporary functioning systems will withstand the imminent quantum computing technology that is yet to take over the computer realm. This pose perils to commonly used cryptographic tools, especially ones that use public-key encryption algorithms, and also to the people whose careers in cybersecurity who are going to start over learning new paradigm of computation, which, in turn, will give power to harmful hackers due to the absence of enough experienced experts to thwarts them. However, we should not be bounded by fear; rather we should start investing in Post-Quantum Cryptography projects and be aware of the flaws that are in our system and start looking for solutions. It is all in our hand to choose what is right for us.


**Works Cited**
Moskowitz, C. (2016, October 5). How Quantum Computing Could Change Cybersecurity. Retrieved from ScientificAmerican:https://www.scientificamerican.com/article/how-quantum-computing-could-change-cybersecurity-forever-video/

Navarrete, D. (2017, January 24). Quantum Computers and the Change in Cybersecurity. Retrieved from Panda Media Center: http://www.pandasecurity.com/mediacenter/security/quantum-computers-change-cybersecurity/

NEWMAN, L. (2017, January 27). Quantum Computers Versus Hackers, Round One. Fight! Retrieved from Wired: https://www.wired.com/2017/01/quantum-computers-versus-hackers-round-one-fight/

Robinson, D. (2016, September 6). Quantum Computing: A New Threat to Cybersecurity. Retrieved from Global Risk Institute: http://globalriskinstitute.org/quantum-computing-new-threat-cybersecurity/

Mosca, M. (2015, October 2). Cybersecurity in an era with:quantum computers: will we be ready? QCrypt 2015. Tokyo.


**Annotated bibliography**
Mosca, M. (2016, January 3). A quantum of prevention for our cyber-security. Retrieved from Global Risk Institute: http://globalriskinstitute.org/publications/quantum-computing-cybersecurity/

In the article, Michele Mosca talks about issues in our current cyber security and the prospect threat of quantum computing to the cybersecurity system. He also describes how many companies such as of China and Canada are investing in this field to be ready to confront the problems that might arise, but also to bring this technology into use because of its benefits. He concludes by saying that the quantum computing is not a mere a threat, but it acts as a landmark that will allow us to pinpoint loopholes in our cryptographic tools so that we can start to build ones that can stand quantum computing threats.



NEWMAN, L. (2017, January 27). Quantum Computers Versus Hackers, Round One. Fight! Retrieved from Wired:https://www.wired.com/2017/01/quantum-computers-versus-hackers-round-one-fight/

The author describes that the new quantum computer, 2000Q, produced by the world-leading quantum computing company, D-WAVE. He focuses on the comparison of the new computer with the traditional ones. He states that 2000Q has already proven to be faster than the digital binary computer; this demonstrates the revolution of computation that is yet to come and the quantum computing will be an important tool in cybersecurity. Moreover, a researcher at the University of Maryland who has been using a D-Wave machine to classify malware, which proves its unprecedented power of computation. The author sums up by noting that we have to start raising programmer who will respond to this new technology and develop algorithms for it.



Nicolosi, D. (2017). New encryption methods strengthen current cybersecurity efforts and establish a platform for the secure communication of quantum computers. Retrieved from Stevens Institute of Technology - The Innovation University:http://research.stevens.edu/post-quantum-cybersecurity

The author talks that post-quantum cryptography is imperative in the realm of cybersecurity because it might, will be, serve great benefits in the future. In addition, he commences by illustrating that cybersecurity is the backbone of the information technology that we should invest into the research of Post-Quantum Cryptography to save the future of technology. In his comparison of tradition to Post-quantum cryptography, he portrays that the quantum computer can now break our traditional cryptography that uses a public key algorithm known as RSA. To sum up, he delineates that to achieve that goal, the integration of mathematics and computer science should be encouraged to develop post quantum computing as they collaborated in the development of former cryptographic tools.  
Mosca, M. (2015, October 2). Cybersecurity in an era with:quantum computers: will we be ready? QCrypt 2015. Tokyo.
In his paper, Michelle Mosca explores the subject of cybersecurity from its young age in the second world wars when Prof. Bill Tutte was able to crack Nazi-codes using the electronic computer COLOSSUS that coined the start of the decryption of the encoded systems. He dives into the possibility of threats that might be brought by quantum computing. He also discusses the implication to cryptographers to build a new system that will stand the quantum computing.

Moskowitz, C. (2016, October 5). How Quantum Computing Could Change Cybersecurity. Retrieved from ScientificAmerican:https://www.scientificamerican.com/article/how-quantum-computing-could-change-cybersecurity-forever-video/
