---
layout: post
title: Artificial Intelligence (AI) as a solution to world’s problems!
description: In contemporary time, Artificial Intelligence is not a sporadic term, but few comprehend its essence to the world’s problems. In 1956 at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology
image: assets/images/ai.jpg
---

In contemporary time, Artificial Intelligence is not a sporadic term, but few comprehend its essence to the world’s problems. In 1956 at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), John McCarthy, renowned as a father of AI, brought this term into existence. He put it "AI is the science and engineering of a making intelligent machines, especially intelligent computer programs (I. T. L. Education Solutions Limited, 2009). “  Since then, the field has only proliferated on ever-increasing speed, as today we regard it as a computational model of human intelligence because of its practical applications witnessed on a daily basis, such as speech recognition, natural language processing, robotics, among many things.  Moreover, the point view of AI has changed. It is currently not observed as an endeavour to resemble human intelligence only, but it is seen as an innovation to develop better technologies that “extend beyond” human “physical calibre (Kannan, 2017).” Granted, there is still major components of Artificial intelligence that are not yet discovered. Nonetheless, the promising pace of development of the field convinces us that soon the full-equipped features of Artificial intelligence will be in practical uses or the major components will be available. Notwithstanding the lack of the impeccability of AI, we can see that AI has already commenced making a profound impact on the world in every field. The advancement of artificial intelligence will – it does already at some point – enhance the lives of the world’s people by solving the world’s problems in different sectors of their lives.

Given the problems humans encounter on a daily basis, AI has come as a solution in people’s livelihoods. Starting with a great concern that has risen in developing countries as well as developed ones of traffic, AI incorporated in self-driving car addressed such traffic-related problems. Companies like Google and Hyundai have already showcased promising results in Tesla and Mercedes-Benz cars. The perspective that traffic is the outcome of individual's intentions is going to be shifted because a numerous car will be pursuing their own "trajectories (Dr. Alexander, 2016)." The car driving themselves will be beneficial in reducing inappropriate decisions made by humans as Obama puts it, “We have machines[autonomous car] that can make a bunch of quick decisions that could drastically reduce traffic fatalities, drastically improve the efficiency of our transportation grid( Newcomb, 2016).”  Like Obama’s words, an inordinate of people die while we have a means of saving them.  According to the World Health Organization, the mortality number of traffic crashes is about 1.25 million ((Road traffic injuries, 2016).  This is due to a human's propensity of making errors and the increase in complexity of our approaches to solving various problems. However, Helen Wright also declares, “We plan trips using GPS systems that rely on AI to cut through the complexity of millions of routes to find the best one to take.” Obviously, the dire problem encountered by countries like China and India with a huge population, AI is the best solution. Not only autonomous can solve the problems of traffic jams, parking hassles, and traffic-related deaths, but also will make the cost of transportation affordable to impoverished people. Transportation Secretary Foxx declared that the average income homes spend 20% of their earnings on transport while low income spends 30% (Newcomb, 2016). So driverless car could be a solution to remove that disparity and provide a cheap transport cost to everyone. In addition, old people and disabled people struggle to move from one place to another not because it is their choice but because of lack of means that is favourable to them. They do not want to be treated like babies (Beasley, 2016). Thus, the driverless car will provide freedom to everyone and maintain equality.
 
Looking at the other facet of human life, various form of artificial intelligence can change the way of living on a daily basis. Frankly, due to much experience with computer technology, people has lost a strong sense of patience. For instance, the exposure of Google’s autosuggestion system, among many other frequently used systems, makes us choose using personal assistance, such as Siri or Cortana, in typing or handling other tasks (Siegal, 2013). We use these kinds of systems daily; thus, AI development will help to perfect these systems to an extent we will be able to rejoice, making our life easier. People are even adapting to it. Mark Zuckerberg, for example, founder and CEO of Facebook, has developed an AI program he calls JARVIS. He is able to monitor everything taking place at his house. Jarvis can recognize faces of people coming to visit him in lieu of wasting his energy going to open the door; in free time, he even can interact with it like other human beings (Bhattarai, 2016). Furthermore, AI can save people who involve in life-threatening activities. Take the example of forest fires. It is detrimental for humans to handle this situation because of their delicacy and the risk of the places. Boston Dynamics, a Google company, employs AI to create robots that imitate animal’s ability and can move in dangerous, crooked places (Jacob, 2013). Think about what if humans can monitor those robots to navigate in those areas instead of putting the lives of people at stake.  Already, the result is evident in space exploration applications in which AI is deployed due to high-risk suspicion entails in the space. Clearly, application of AI not only provides hope of making the life of people easier but also portray the prospect of being a lifesaver.

Additionally, AI has the potential to play a substantial part in business fields. Many companies have integrated Artificial Intelligence in the production of goods and services in order to maintain the consistency in their production and to augment yield. Unlike humans who are prone to errors and exhaustion, AI machine can work tirelessly without seeking time of breaks and holidays and at the same time preserving the standard of their output without any supervision (Siegal, 2013). Moreover, many companies are adopting the utilization of voice-activated AI programs to respond to the users by guiding them or providing them needed information (Siegal, 2013). This will not only give remarkable users’ experiences with the companies but also will bolster the productive use of time for users while consulting some companies. Firm’s employees also will be relieved from some mundane tasks.  Interestingly, Research has shown that by 2020, AI will facilitate 40 per cent of mobile devices' users. Virtual personal assistants will utilize the cloud-hosted neural network to build a framework that will enable businesses to predict the need of users and establish trust (Woods, 2010). On the other hand, an English maxim says, “A coin has two sides.” Even though I mentioned the benefits of the AI in business, there is a sheer controversy among multitudes of people. Especially in business, many feel that is a threat to future generation job seekers. According to McLellan, the author at ZDNet, the expansion of “AI boom” will impinge on the “white collar jobs” because AI machines will be able to handle such kind of tasks. The profession of Journalism also is on the verge of extermination since programs that can produce a content akin to humans’ exists.  Even lucrative jobs, such as Kesho, a sophisticated “computation knowledge engine for financial industry” can replace it because since it can do “parallel statistic computing, natural language inputs ( McLellan).  However, every cloud has a silver lining. According to the report of Deloitte, by using inductive reasoning we see that the advent of new technology in the past has led losses of jobs but also other was created, in addition, bequeathing a positive impact. He states, “We cannot forecast the jobs of the future, but we believe that jobs will continue to be created, enhanced and destroyed much as they have in the last 150 years. (McLellan, 2015)." Speaking of the industrial revolution, many people regarded it as a sinister era, but we now live in the world because of that era. Many industries were able to produce more critical devices and tools, which saved tens of millions of people. So why do not we think that it could not be the same case for AI? Despite that challenges present, according to Obama, we should “accommodate these new technologies” unless we want to leave some people behind, he says ( Katia, 2017).

In spite of the heating debates about artificial intelligence as a casual implication to massive unemployment, when it comes to medicine that countervailing idea fades. AI has contributed to the appearance of disproportionate revolution in medicine, which saved, still save today, the lives of many. Beginning with a famous scientist, mostly known for his quest for the Theory of Everything, he suffered from a motor neuron disease, where he was not able to do anything for himself, or for others. If it were not for AI, he would not have continued his passion for continuous exploration in his area of interest. Now, he can convey his message to other people through an AI-embed machine (Siegal, 2013).  Furthermore, in the medical field, the issue of shortage of medical professionals who can satisfy the need of patients has been a widespread problem. However, it seems to be no issue anymore in the future. Many companies are investing plentiful funding in research of new technology. IBM Watson Health has already started to work in isolated areas helping people diagnose their diseases. Rural areas, in particular, run short of doctors today, but we can use smart systems, if we teach them, to handle some illness and provide “therapy recommendation” because AI program is based on the model of disease and its alignment with a patient, unlike other computer programs (Kannah, 2017 ). AI systems in medicine will also dwindle the risk of false treatments and enhance treatments at pace human cannot (Kannah, 2017), unlike human doctors who are prone to mistakes and limited to quick processing essential etiquettes in diagnosis as I mentioned above.  Other potential ways exist in which AI can take firm hold in medicine. For example, it can help in laboratory examination and storage of medical information; it can help in decision-making and research; and it can provide a significant ground of knowledge to the future scientific medical community (Applications and Uses of Artificial Intelligence, 2014). 
Without going in far future, AI has already been playing a significant role in the medical field. X-rays images such as, MRI scans, CT, angiograms use X-rays, because of Image Interpretation Multiple medical images that use AI for image recognition to interpret data produced into a meaningful form. Intelligent Medical Imaging, Inc. (Florida) invented the Micro21 microscopy workstation that uses the primary component of AI, neural network technology, to examine all kind of blood cells (Applications and Uses of Artificial Intelligence, 2014). Among many applications, these show how the advancement in technology has already an impact on medical fields and promise us that future impact will be even more positive.
By scrutinizing the ways Artificial Intelligence has already influenced the world regarding social life, business, and medicine, we can conclude that the prospect of AI is encouraging in affecting every sector of human life productively and positively. Multitudes of lives depend on medical treatment that employs AI to function, the efficiency of business works can be boosted by the use of the technology, and difficulty we meet in every day are, if not, could be,  carried away by this advancement of AI. So why would not continue to invest our effort to develop it?

	
   Works Cited
Beasley, S. (2016, May 6). Older, Disabled Drivers Pose Challenge for Driverless Car Makers. Retrieved from Bureau of National Affairs: https://www.bna.com/older-disabled-drivers-n57982070757/

Bhattarai, A. (2016, December 20). Mark Zuckerberg builds an AI assistant to run his house — and entertain his toddler. Retrieved from Washington Post:https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/business/wp/2016/12/20/mark-zuckerberg-builds-an-artificial-intelligence-assistant-to-run-his-house-and-entertain-his-toddler/

I. T. L. Education Solutions Limited, I. (2009). Introduction to Information Technology. Pearson Education Canada; 1 edition (August 10, 2009).

Kannan, P. V. (2017, January 5). Artificial Intelligence Applications in healthcare. Retrieved from Asian Hospital and Healthcare Management: https://www.asianhhm.com/technology-equipment/artificial-intelligence
Road traffic injuries. (2016, November). Retrieved from World Health Organization:http://www.who.int/mediacentre/factsheets/fs358/en/

Siegal, J. (2013, October 23). Siri is still being ignored by iPhone users, even after iOS 7 makeover. Retrieved from RGR:http://bgr.com/2013/10/23/apple-siri-usage-ios-7-survey/